0.20.0 blogpost reworked (#179)
TeamNewPipe/website: _posts/2020-10-04-newpipe-0.20.0.md

---
layout: post
title: "NewPipe 0.20.0 released: Major version, new unified player, new notifications. More things."
short: "NewPipe 0.20.0 released"
date: 2020-10-04 05:00:00 +0100
categories: [pinned, release]
author: Opusforlife, Poolitzer and Allan Nordhøy
image: newpipe
excerpt_separator: <!-- more -->
---

Hey there! Back admittedly a bit late with this release, but for _very_ good reason. Ready? Sit down, grab the virtual popcorn and some hydration.
<!-- more -->

## A new unified player

"If the new player is the _unified player_, was the old one un-unified?" you ask. The new player is new, and it is unified.

> Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and queues. Switching from one to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, only to be recreated in a new one. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if instead of the using player buttons in the drop-down menu inside the player, you (accidentally) switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.

Author: ```suggestion
Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player, each with its own separate code and queue. Switching from one to the other meant the old player and its queue closed itself, only to be recreated in a new one. It sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it was. Moreover, if instead of the using the drop-down menu inside the player, you (accidentally) switched using the same player buttons below the thumbnail, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off; without the queue it was in.
```

Such lavishness is of course off by default for mobile data, but works out of the box provided Wi-Fi compatible equipment is within reach.

### Video orientation

In the times of old, the main video player would always play videos full-screen regardless of the user's orientation. Great for video in the realm of wider than tall, if you were holding it right.
Somehow also great if held upright for perusers of vertical-video. Or, _excellent_ for any user unconcerned with 90° viewing angles in either direction.
In the glory that is NewPipe 0.20.0, a full-screen button replaces the orientation-switch button. Is the video a good old-fashioned video, or some vertical nonsense? The player knows, and the player checks to see if the device is held the same way before going full-screen. If you have auto-rotate on, the button vanishes for regular videos, but ready to go from vertical video details, to full vertical video on the vertical. If you are into that sort of thing.

<video src="/img/smart_button.webm" poster="/img/0.20.0_thumbnail_smart_fullscreen.png" class="img-responsive no-flow screenshot-image" autoplay loop muted controls></video>

### Minimized player

> Swipe down from the video details to minimize. This gives you the cutest little video, from which you can play, pause, or close down this little rascal pulling on your heartstrings. Browse away while the video stays put, or carries on. Without distractions like these, how do you really know the video you are watching is the best possible distraction from something else? In widescreen distraction, you can swipe down on the title to minimize. Other swipage in other areas still controls volume, brightness and gestures.

Author: ```suggestion
Swipe downwards from the video details to minimize. This gives you the cutest little video, from which you can play, pause, or close down this little rascal pulling on your heartstrings. Browse away while the video stays put, or carries on. Without distractions like these, how do you really know the video you are watching is the best possible distraction from something else? In widescreen distraction, you can swipe down on the title to minimize. Other swipeage in other areas still controls volume, brightness and gestures.
```

> Swipe downwards from the video details to minimize. This gives you the cutest little video, from which you can play, pause, or close down this little rascal pulling on your heartstrings. Browse away while the video stays put, or carries on. Without distractions like these, how do you really know the video you are watching is the best possible distraction from something else? In widescreen distraction, you can swipe down on the title to minimize. Other swipeage in other areas still controls volume, brightness and gestures.

Author: ```suggestion
Minimize any video by swiping downwards. This gives you the cutest little video, from which you can play, pause, or close down this little rascal pulling on your heartstrings. Browse away while the video stays put, or carries on. Without distractions like these, how do you really know the video you are watching is the best possible distraction from something else? In widescreen distraction, you can swipe down on the title to minimize. Other swipeage in other areas still controls volume, brightness and gestures.
```

<video src="/img/landscape_swipe_down.webm" poster="/img/0.20.0_thumbnail_swipe_down.png" class="img-responsive" autoplay loop muted controls></video>
Minimizing the player instead of closing it means retaining your place in the video bread queue!
Example: Be supposed to be doing something else, watch a video instead, minimize it, then browse the _trending_ page (you insane person). Watch some filth from there, then quickly minimize it, and shudder. Now browse for some calming music, and finally watch a video about small pandas falling over.

If the player isn't closed (by using the "X" button or swiping down on it), and instead stays minimized, you can tap "Back" to go through those videos in reverse order! You are making history, as the lead role of your own exploration. Pick videos for a quickly-built video queue before watching on the binge.

> Before this was only possible by using the background or pop-up player.

Author: ```suggestion
Before this was only possible using the background or pop-up player.
```

### Thumbnail progress bar

Bar progress, nail a thumb! If playing video in the background or in a pop-up, take note of the shiny progress bar underneath the thumbnail.
It updates in real time, with a little counter and a red bar. The audacity.
<img class="no-flow vertical" src="/img/screenshots/progress_bar.png"/>

This fine list of changes were made possible by the steadily awesome [@avently](https://github.com/avently). Let him live rent free in your head, as you bask in the fruits of his labour.

* * *

These massive changes to not only the code, but also the app's workflow, meant its PR had to be tested, reviewed and modified over and over, over a long period of time. A huge thank you to [@avently](https://github.com/avently), for having the patience and dedication to keep adding features and bug-fixes to satisfy all. A weaker person would have gone insane. And a big thank you to the maintainers for doggedly reviewing this gigantic PR, repeatedly. Totaling ~6600 additions and ~5600 removals, the hat is off.

> This evolution saw evolutionary bugs in its wake. [@avently](https://github.com/avently), with the help of [@blackbox87](https://github.com/blackbox87), [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) swatted as the reports came in. 

Author: ```suggestion
The epoch laid behind saw evolutionary bugs in its wake. [@avently](https://github.com/avently), with the help of [@blackbox87](https://github.com/blackbox87), [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) swatted as the reports came in. 
```

## The Notification is dead, long live the Notification!

As a pedant, you have noticed NewPipe's notification is different from most other media apps. It has the bar of progress, buttons in odd places, and a permanent, though tepid grey colour. Much of the difference is down to using an old API for notifications called RemoteView, _in the past_!

> Enter the **Age of MediaStyle notification**:

Author: ```suggestion
Enter the **Age of MediaStyle notifications**:
```

> This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop, colour-matching its theme to the cover art playing, and in 10 got a SeekBar. It is a powerful API removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what once was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!

Author: ```suggestion
This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop, colour-matching its theme to the cover art playing since 8.0, and in 10 it got a SeekBar. It is forcefully an API to ally with, and a powerful API it is, removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what once was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!
```

> This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop, colour-matching its theme to the cover art playing since 8.0, and in 10 it got a SeekBar. It is forcefully an API to ally with, and a powerful API it is, removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what once was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!

Author: ```suggestion
This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop, colour-matching its theme to the cover art playing since Oreo (8.0), and in 10 it got a SeekBar. It is forcefully an API to ally with, and a powerful API it is, removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what once was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!
```

Ultimately, he took over the responsibility for this PR. He updated and polished the UI, fixed bugs, got everyone and their grandfather to test the changes, and pulled us to the finish line!

## Improvements

Take this moment to sip from the nectars of your beverage. [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) lets you resize NewPipe provided it is possible in your environment.

Have you ever been sandwiched between sharing a URL to NewPipe, and a little "Unsupported URL" toast? Well, those URLs are still unsupported, but now the error message is great! It allows you to reshare the URL or just open it in a web-browser instead. All this, thanks to [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@webber-naut](https://github.com/webber-naut) for bringing this to our attention in the first place. 

Talking about sharing, when you share a live-stream with someone, NewPipe doesn't add a timestamp to the URL any more. This was done by [@nmurali94](https://github.com/nmurali94). Thanks :)

> The header layout has improved: The alignment on the sides is consistent, and longer headings can expand to two lines.

Author: ```suggestion
The playlist header layout has improved: The alignment on the sides is consistent, and longer headings can expand to two lines.
```

## Development

Development. The nerd magic sourced from the purest of autism. Embrace yourself:

- The extractor will ignore OTF streams now, since they don't work with progressive HTTP, and the extractor can't work with DASH just yet. This has been a major inconvenience for a lot of users and developers alike, so we're eager to mitigate the problem until the proper fix can be landed sometime later. ([@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688))

- A [Checkstyle](https://checkstyle.sourceforge.io/) rule was added to show an error when a local variable which could be `final` wasn't declared as such. ([@XiangRongLin](https://github.com/XiangRongLin))

- A workaround was not needed henceforth, following the latest version of the PrettyTime library. The performance improvement is a bonus! ([@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol))

- Numbers and uppercase letters are now allowed in the app ID. ([@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox))

> - Contributors should discuss big contributions prior to opening PRs now. ([@gkeegan](https://github.com/gkeegan))

Author: ```suggestion
- Big contributions should be discussed prior to opening PRs now. ([@gkeegan](https://github.com/gkeegan))
```

## Where does one get outfitted with the latest in NewPipe?

NewPipe notifies you of new versions in a notification you can click to download it. An alternative is the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases). If you use the [F-Droid app](https://f-droid.org/), you will be notified of all app news, including [NewPipe](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.schabi.newpipe/). Please keep in mind it can take F-Droid a while to update their repository. If you have problems installing you may need to uninstall NewPipe, before reinstalling it. (Make sure to back up your kids, and you data.)

## Where to get this brand-new version
If you already had NewPipe installed from the main F-Droid repository, to get this version of NewPipe you can do one of the following:
- Wait for F-Droid to ship the new NewPipe
- Switch to the special NewPipe repository in F-Droid by following the [directions in the announcement]({% post_url 2020-05-30-f-droid-repo %}) (no need to remove any NewPipe installed from GitHub releases first).

> NewPipe notifies you about new versions. You can download them when you press the notification. An alternative is the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases). If you use the [F-Droid app](https://f-droid.org/), it notifies you as well about an update for [NewPipe](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.schabi.newpipe/) - please keep in mind that it can take F-Droid a while to update their repository. If you have problems installing you may need to uninstall NewPipe then reinstall (make sure to backup data).

Author: "backup" is a noun. That is not an em-dash. "it as well" → use "it too".

Reviewer: Should be "back up", yeah.

> "it as well" → use "it too".

But it is "you as well".

> That is not an em-dash. 

Should have been a period, in my opinion.

---
layout: post

> title: "NewPipe 0.20.0 released: A new major version, a new unified player, a new notification experience... A lot is new this time!"

Author: That is a tripledot instead of an ellipsis, and four "a" in a row.

Reviewer: Yup. Should have been an ellipsis.

Why is it a poor choice of words?

I didn't like "A lot is new this time!" but I couldn't think of a good replacement either.

title: "NewPipe 0.20.0 released: Major version, new unified player, new notifications. More things."
short: "NewPipe 0.20.0 released"
date: 2020-10-04 05:00:00 +0100
categories: [pinned, release]

> author: Opusforlife & Poolitzer

Author: opusforlife is otherwise lowercase only, and unless the collaboration is very close, the ampersand is unwarranted. The strings don't use ampersand.

Reviewer: "Can it be Poolitzer and opusforlife?" I didn't think of this before, but now that you've brought it up, I think capitalisation here alerts the reader that it is a proper noun, and hence a username.

From your link: "The Writers Guild of America uses & to denote two writers collaborating on a specific script."

We are two writers who collaborated on a specific blog post. So it's fine, then?

> author: Opusforlife, Poolitzer and Allan Nordhøy

Author: ```suggestion
author: opusforlife, Poolitzer and Allan Nordhøy
```

author: Opusforlife, Poolitzer and Allan Nordhøy
image: newpipe
excerpt_separator: <!-- more -->
---

> Hey there! Guess who is back? We are. Admittedly, we're quite a bit late with this release. But there is a _very_ good reason for that. Are you ready for it? Sit down, grab some popcorn and a beverage of your choice. This is going to be long.

Author: This is bait, and fluff at that. Pontificating how long something is doesn't help. The reader is not enticed, the readership is lost.

Reviewer: It's filler text. There is a major subheading just after this, so it doesn't matter if the reader really reads this part or not. I expect most of them will skip to the subheading, anyway.

Author: It continues in the lead paragraph. Writing things the reader isn't expected to read, to start? ???

Reviewer: It's a release blog post. We write stuff we want to talk about in this release and the reader reads it. Are there any rules about what we can talk about and what not?

> Hey there! Back admittedly a bit late with this release, but for _very_ good reason. Ready? Sit down, grab the virtual popcorn and some hydration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hey there! Back admittedly a bit late with this release, but for _very_ good reasons. Ready? Sit down, grab the virtual popcorn and some hydration.
```

Author: Figure of speech.

Hey there! Back admittedly a bit late with this release, but for _very_ good reason. Ready? Sit down, grab the virtual popcorn and some hydration.
<!-- more -->

## A new unified player

> "What in the name of the coronavirus is the _unified player_?" you ask. Well, first of all, that's a very weird expression. Where did you even get that one from... - you know what? Save it. We don't want to know. You just keep on using that, we'll keep on talking about the new player.

Author: I don't understand the corona joke. Breaking the fourth wall in what is now different tenses (under different pretenses) doesn't work. Telling the user to "save it" and "we don't want to know" adds insult to injury. There is no landscape created to pull this off, it is at face value a construction that falls on itself. There has been nothing said about the unified player at all, at length I might add.

Reviewer: "In the name of God" - A phrase of exasperation used to emphasize a question or statement. "What in the name of God are you doing in here?"

That's the corona joke.

Can you please point out where the different tense is?

The user didn't come up with that expression, we did. The user knows this, so why would they take offence to us making fun of something they didn't even say? We are deliberately attacking a strawman here. That _is_ the joke.

Author: Talking with the user, talking to the user, asking rhetorical or hypothetical questions, under a headline that seems fairly normal. OK, there is a functional setup for a joke, but it doesn't tie together. Am I still missing something?

Reviewer: Not sure what the headline has to do with anything, but I assure you, the joke works.

> Talking with the user, talking to the user,

*Talking _for_ the user, talking to the user

> "If the new player is the _unified player_, was the old one un-unified?" you ask. The new player is new, and it is unified.

Reviewer 2: Saying "the new player is new" doesn't really add anything.

Author: Therein lies the joke. Not sure it works.

"If the new player is the _unified player_, was the old one un-unified?" you ask. The new player is new, and it is unified.

> A new player it indeed is. Up until now, NewPipe had three different players bundled in its code: the main, pop-up and background players. All three had separate code and separate playing queues. When you switched from one player to another, in the background, the old player and its queue closed itself, while a new player was created, along with a new queue, which took over then. If that sounds complicated and cumbersome, that's because it is. Moreover, if you accidentally switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail instead of the ones in the drop down menu inside the player, the stream would start from the beginning instead of carrying on from where you left, and you would lose your (possibly carefully built) queue.

Author: We know it is the new player already, because it already said so. This is spinning dirt with no movement. "Untill now" makes "had" redundant. The rest isn't bad, but it is too long. Move the story along.

Reviewer: > We know it is the new player already, because it already said so.

Look at the expression. It is an emphasis. Repetition is often used that way.

> "Until now" makes "had" redundant.

Sorry? "Until now, Newpipe three different players bundled in its code..."?

> The rest isn't bad, but it is too long.

This paragraph suffers mostly from a lack of technical terms for things. "the player buttons below the thumbnail" and "the ones in the drop down menu inside the player" are both phrases that could have been replaced by single words or terms, if they existed.

Author: You can say "NewPiped had three different players bundled in its code", or you can get to the point right away. Making it more technical is not have to save this. I'll have a go at trying to streamline matters.

Reviewer: > I'll have a go at trying to streamline matters.

Please don't, @comradekingu. This blog post is done. We've moved on. No need to think about it until the next release.

> Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and queues. Switching from one to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, to be recreated in a new one. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if instead of the using player buttons in the drop-down menu inside the player, you (accidentally) switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.

Author: ```suggestion
Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and queues. Switching from one to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, only to be recreated in a new one. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if instead of the using player buttons in the drop-down menu inside the player, you (accidentally) switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.
```

> Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and playing queues. Switching from one player to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, while a new player and queue was created. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if accidentally switcing using the player buttons below the thumbnail instead of the ones in the drop down menu inside the player, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and playing queues. Switching from one player to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, while a new player and queue was created. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if you accidentally switch using the player buttons below the thumbnail instead of the ones in the drop down menu inside the player, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.
```

Author: Would have to be "switched", because it is in the past.

Reviewer 2: Done.

> Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and playing queues. Switching from one player to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, while a new player and queue was created. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if accidentally switcing using the player buttons below the thumbnail instead of the ones in the drop down menu inside the player, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.

Author: ```suggestion
Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and playing queues. Switching from one player to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, while a new player and queue was created. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if you accidentally switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail instead of the ones in the drop down menu inside the player, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.
```

> Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and playing queues. Switching from one player to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, while a new player and queue was created. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if you accidentally switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail instead of the ones in the drop down menu inside the player, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.

Author: ```suggestion
Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and queues. Switching from one to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, and a new player and queue was created. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if instead of the using player buttons in the drop-down menu inside the player, you (accidentally) switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.
```

> Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and queues. Switching from one to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, and a new player and queue was created. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if instead of the using player buttons in the drop-down menu inside the player, you (accidentally) switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.

Author: ```suggestion
Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and queues. Switching from one to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, to be recreated in a new one. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if instead of the using player buttons in the drop-down menu inside the player, you (accidentally) switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.
```

Until now, NewPipe had a main, pop-up and background -player. All three had separate code and playing queues. Switching from one player to another meant the old player and its queue closed itself, while a new player and queue was created. That sounds complicated and cumbersome, because it is. Moreover, if you accidentally switched using the player buttons below the thumbnail instead of the ones in the drop down menu inside the player, the stream would start anew instead of carrying on from where you left off. Losing your (possibly carefully built) queue was the bonus.

> Well, no more! The buttons in the player drop down menu have been removed and the action buttons below the thumbnail work like they're supposed to, so now you're at no risk whatsoever of losing your playing position or queue. Whew!

Author: Here it is unclear what the buttons aren't supposed to be doing. Something else happens as a result is not the same, and this is a lot of focus on what was. The point is reiterated in "this was not" and "this is" form. There is no flow there.

Reviewer: It is a direct follow up to the sentence starting with "Moreover" above. Roughly: "If you did X, Y bad thing would happen. Fixed now! We have done Z so Y bad thing cannot happen".

Author: It reads like a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rebus where you are supposed to figure out if the giraffe lives in the garage, and what colour it is as a result of knowing other stuff.

> No more! There are no buttons in the player drop down menu anymore, and the action buttons below the thumbnail now only do the job of being action buttons.

Author: ```suggestion
No more! There are no buttons in the player drop-down menu anymore, and the action buttons below the thumbnail now only do the job of being action buttons.
```

No more! There are no buttons in the player drop-down menu anymore, and the action buttons below the thumbnail now only do the job of being action buttons.
Everyone keeps their position _in the queue_. The utopia is here.

> This was made possible by rewriting the code so that all players run on one common service. When you switch from one player to another, this service remains running, preserving the stream data, and the new player just picks up from where the old one left off. Everything remains the same, including the queue. Ah, serendipity.

Author: OK, we get to the point. The user is full of info about the old system, and finally all of that can be discarded. It sort of works, but taking the reader through all that is not the best way of explaining difficulty.

Reviewer: It was necessary to delve into details at least somewhat below surface level to explain why some things have changed to what they are now. They are not immediately obvious, and if the user doesn't know them, they will consider these changes bugs. I can already see this by the number of bug reporters I am directing towards the blog post.

Author: Notwithstanding detail, the concept of explaining the old is not interesting. Change is interesting.
Making the distinction between new and old keeps track of what the point is. It stops on an immediate level.

Reviewer: Whether interesting or boring, this was necessary, as I've said in the previous comment. So it had to be done.

> And equally complicated and cumbersome rewriting of the code lets all views use one common service. Switch from one player to another, and the service is at your service preserving the stream data, changing only the view. If anything your bloodpressure could drop _too low_. Ah, serendipity.

Author: ```suggestion
An equally complicated and cumbersome code rewrite lets all views use one common service. Switch from one player to another, and the service is at your service preserving the stream data, changing only the view. If anything your blood-pressure could drop _too low_. Ah, serendipity.
```

An equally complicated and cumbersome code rewrite lets all views use one common service. Switch from one player to another, and the service is at your service preserving the stream data, changing only the view. If anything your blood-pressure could drop _too low_. Ah, serendipity.

### Video details page

> A more unified experience is not the only feature this change brought you. There is one which is immediately noticeable once you open a video in the new version: the video details page. Earlier, when you opened the video details, you were shown a thumbnail, video description, comments, etc. Tapping the thumbnail would open the player in full-screen, hiding the rest of these elements. Now, when you're in portrait mode, the video plays right in the video details page - just like YouTube! There is even a new 'Autoplay' setting which plays the video automatically when you open video details - also just like YouTube! This setting will be turned on by default for Wi-Fi. Of course, you can turn it off if you prefer the behaviour of the previous versions.

Author: >A more unified experience is not the only feature this change brought you. There is one which is

All of that is nothing. One sentence more into what is a garden-path sentence the reader knows we are talking about the video details page. Another mechanical explanation, OK. Where it is either talking directly to the user, there is no flow onto this. Don't say it is like YouTube, because that is unprofessional, and legal fodder for their legal team. NewPipe specifically doesn't do that anywhere I can help it. "This setting will be turned on by default" isn't good language. Who knows what the behavior of the previous versions is. Not people downloading for the first time.

Reviewer: >the reader knows we are talking about the video details page

Then does it matter? This is again a clash of writing styles. You prefer being straightforward and getting to the point immediately. The tone of the blog post is more informal.

> there is no flow onto this

Explain?

> legal fodder for their legal team

@TheAssassin Your input?

> Who knows what the behavior of the previous versions is. -Not people downloading for the first time.

Which will be cleared up the moment they read the very next sentence.

Author: Read trademark law. Where isn't NewPipe welcoming a lawsuit?

If you don't muddy the waters, you don't need to clear up. There is no saving grace there.
Here is how it works: There is a setting, refers to earlier sentence, between "just like youtube", even earlier that is a referenced "setting" (bad repetition", redundant "which" "plays the video automatically when you open video details". However "in portrait mode" OK, That setting is on. "by default" isn't needed then. Why not just explain what happens right there and then? "Of course", what? 
"you" not needed "can turn it off" what is it here? "if you prefer" second you, "the behaviour of" waiting "the previous versions." So "or it can be turned off." that is all I read there. In 4 multi-stage sentences all interlinked. That is not a writing style, that is a mistake.

> Imagine this, if in portrait mode, the video plays right in the video details page. Raise your hands and say "the day has come". Believe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine this: if in portrait mode, the video plays right in the video details page. Raise your hands and say "the day has come". Believe.
```

Author: Don't like how that flows. Doing em-dash

> Imagine this, if in portrait mode, the video plays right in the video details page. Raise your hands and say "the day has come". Believe.

Author: ```suggestion
Imagine—if in portrait mode, the video plays right in the video details page. Raise your hands and say "the day has come". Believe.
```

> NewPipe now comes equipped with a setting for 'Autoplay'. It can be enjoyed respinsibly for automatic video play upon opening video details.

Author: ```suggestion
NewPipe now comes equipped with a setting for 'Autoplay'. It can be enjoyed responsibly for automatic video play upon opening video details.
```

> NewPipe now comes equipped with a setting for 'Autoplay'. It can be enjoyed respinsibly for automatic video play upon opening video details.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if that's a misspelling, but here:
```suggestion
NewPipe now comes equipped with a setting for 'Autoplay'. It can be enjoyed responsibly for automatic video play upon opening video details.
```

All is one. If you open the video details page you probably think there is going to be a thumbnail, video description, comments, etc.
Tapping the thumbnail would open the player in full-screen, hiding the rest of these elements. That is no way to live.
Imagine—if in portrait mode, the video plays right in the video details page. Raise your hands and say "the day has come". Believe.
NewPipe now comes equipped with a setting for 'Autoplay'. It can be enjoyed responsibly for automatic video play upon opening video details.
Such lavishness is of course off by default for mobile data, but works out of the box provided Wi-Fi compatible equipment is within reach.

### Video orientation

> Previously, the main video player would always play videos in full-screen regardless of your selected orientation. This was fine for landscape videos in landscape mode and portrait videos in portrait mode, but it resulted in a lot of wasted space if the video's orientation didn't match the player's. No more! There is now a full-screen button which replaces the orientation switch button, and it is _smart_. It will detect if the video is landscape or portrait, and will ensure the player is in the correct orientation when you enter full-screen! How's _that_ for convenience and usability? Not only that, but if auto-rotate is enabled, and the video is a landscape one, the button will disappear because you don't need it! (In portrait mode, you still need the button to go into full-screen from the video details.)

Author: "Previously" is superfluous. This was the hardest part to read. It requires a lot of mental adaptation, and it is mechanical. The strings don't use "enabled". Double "that".
>Not only that, but if auto-rotate is enabled, and the video is a landscape one, the button will disappear because you don't need it!

This sentence is horrendous. Four clauses to the point, which is at the end of all that.

Reviewer: > "Previously" is superfluous.

"Earlier"?

> it is mechanical

What does "mechanical" mean here? You've used this word earlier as well, but I don't get it from the context.

> The strings don't use "enabled".

Strings? What strings?

> Double "that".

Where?

> Four clauses to the point

Three, actually. And considering there are two conditions and one result, that is unavoidable. Your replacement, incidentally, _also_ contains three clauses, so I'm not sure how it is better?

> If you have auto-rotate on, the button vanishes for regular videos, but ready to go from vertical video details, to full vertical video on the vertical.

Author: I can't bring myself to read that again so I understand it, but the ordering, the lack of repetition. ("will" twice), the many sentences, the length. It is a mess. It is still a mess, but it can now be disregarded somewhat.

> In the times of old, the main video player would always play videos full-screen regardless of the user's orientation. Great if for video if held right.

Author: ```suggestion
In the times of old, the main video player would always play videos full-screen regardless of the user's orientation. Great for video as it is supposed to be, if you were holding it right.
```

> In the times of old, the main video player would always play videos full-screen regardless of the user's orientation. Great if for video if held right.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the times of old, the main video player would always play videos full-screen regardless of the user's orientation. Great for video if held right.
```

> Somehow also great if held upright for perusers of vertical-video. Or, great for any user unconcerned with 90° viewing angles in either direction.

Author: ```suggestion
Somehow also great if held upright for perusers of vertical-video. Or, _excellent_ for any user unconcerned with 90° viewing angles in either direction.
```

> In the glory that is NewPipe 0.20.0, a full-screen button replaces the orientation switch button. Is the video video, or some vertical nonsense? The player knows, and the player checks to see if the device is held the same way before going full-screen. If you have auto-rotate on, there is no button for regular videos, but will be to go from vertical video details, to full vertical video on the vertical. If you are into that sort of thing.

Author: ```suggestion
In the glory that is NewPipe 0.20.0, a full-screen button replaces the orientation-switch button. Is the video a good old-fashioned video, or some vertical nonsense? The player knows, and the player checks to see if the device is held the same way before going full-screen. If you have auto-rotate on, the button vanishes for regular videos, but will be to go from vertical video details, to full vertical video on the vertical. If you are into that sort of thing.
```

> In the glory that is NewPipe 0.20.0, a full-screen button replaces the orientation-switch button. Is the video a good old-fashioned video, or some vertical nonsense? The player knows, and the player checks to see if the device is held the same way before going full-screen. If you have auto-rotate on, the button vanishes for regular videos, but will be to go from vertical video details, to full vertical video on the vertical. If you are into that sort of thing.

Author: ```suggestion
In the glory that is NewPipe 0.20.0, a full-screen button replaces the orientation-switch button. Is the video a good old-fashioned video, or some vertical nonsense? The player knows, and the player checks to see if the device is held the same way before going full-screen. If you have auto-rotate on, the button vanishes for regular videos, but ready to go from vertical video details, to full vertical video on the vertical. If you are into that sort of thing.
```

In the times of old, the main video player would always play videos full-screen regardless of the user's orientation. Great for video in the realm of wider than tall, if you were holding it right.
Somehow also great if held upright for perusers of vertical-video. Or, great for any user unconcerned with 90° viewing angles in either direction.
In the glory that is NewPipe 0.20.0, a full-screen button replaces the orientation-switch button. Is the video a good old-fashioned video, or some vertical nonsense? The player knows, and the player checks to see if the device is held the same way before going full-screen. If you have auto-rotate on, the button vanishes for regular videos, but will be to go from vertical video details, to full vertical video on the vertical. If you are into that sort of thing.

<video src="/img/smart_button.webm" poster="/img/0.20.0_thumbnail_smart_fullscreen.png" class="img-responsive no-flow screenshot-image" autoplay loop muted controls></video>

### Minimized player

> You can now swipe down on the video in the video details page to _minimize_ it - just like YouTu... wait no. It's better. You get a minimized player at the bottom, and you can play/pause or even close it from there. How cool is that? The video will keep playing (or stay paused, if you prefer that) while you browse NewPipe at your leisure! No more having to finish a video before browsing mindlessly! Yay distractions! (In landscape mode, you can swipe down on the title to minimize as well. The swipe area is confined to that region because the rest is used for the existing volume and brightness gestures, as you know.)

Author: "Minimize it" is the end statement in a garden-path sentence that reads "you can now swipe down on the video". That should be downwards. Of course it is now. Stick to explaining one thing, and then do everything else as "in the past".

Reviewer: > "Minimize it" is the end statement in a garden-path sentence

Your usage of the term "garden-path sentence" is incorrect. See the Wikipedia page: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garden-path_sentence

> That should be downwards.

Swipe up, swipe down, swipe left, swipe right - they are all commonly used terms. I have never read "swipe upwards", "swipe leftwards", etc. anywhere.

> Stick to explaining one thing, and then do everything else as "in the past".

Why does it matter if we say "This is what happened earlier; this is what happens now" vs "This is what happens now; this is what happened earlier"?

> Why does everything hinge on something else. 

Explain? Or an example?

> What region.

The title region. It is mentioned in the previous sentence.

> There is no "as you know".

It is a reasonable assumption to me that the user knows and uses the volume and brightness gestures.

Author: Why are we talking to the user about things the user knows already? I have been using NewPipe since it was created, and I don't do any swiping. I had swiping over a decade ago in Opera, and I still didn't use it. It isn't reasonable, it is counterfactual.

Time matters, because there is no voice established, no narrative. It just lumps on extra detail for no reason. Like adding "you" to everything that can be done.

>>Why does everything hinge on something else.

>Explain? Or an example?

>What region.

>>The title region. It is mentioned in the previous sentence.

The swiping is a question of what is the swiping action, and what is the swiping result. I didn't make it clear.

"You can now swipe down on the video in the video details page to" to what? Why?

> Swipe down from the video details to minimize. This gives you the cutest little video, from which you can play, pause, or close down this little rascal pulling on your heartstrings. Browse away while the video stays put, or carries on. Without distractions like these, how do you really know the video you are watching is the best possible distraction from something else? In widescreen distraction, you can swipe down on the title to minimize. Other swipage in other areas still controls volume, brightness and gestures.

Reviewer 2: What does swipage mean?

Author: The act of swiping. I made that word up.

Swipe down from the video details to minimize. This gives you the cutest little video, from which you can play, pause, or close down this little rascal pulling on your heartstrings. Browse away while the video stays put, or carries on. Without distractions like these, how do you really know the video you are watching is the best possible distraction from something else? In widescreen distraction, you can swipe down on the title to minimize. Other swipage in other areas still controls volume, brightness and gestures.
<video src="/img/landscape_swipe_down.webm" poster="/img/0.20.0_thumbnail_swipe_down.png" class="img-responsive" autoplay loop muted controls></video>

> Since the player can now be minimized instead of closed, this means you get to retain your opened video queue! Let us go through an example: You watch a video, minimize it, then browse the trending page (you insane person), watch a video from there, quickly minimize it, browse for some calming music, and finally watch a video about pandas. As long as the minimized player isn't closed (by using the cross button or swiping down on it), you can tap back to go through those videos in reverse order! This allows you to browse a whole bunch of videos and quickly build up a video queue before you start watching them. You were able do this earlier, but you had to use the background or popup player queues as a workaround, since the main player's queue isn't accessible outside of the player.

Author: Trending page into insane person is a cracking joke. It works. Run with it.
I don't care as much for how to achieve what is now fixed in a version that is now the old version, because, nobody cares. Really.

Reviewer: > Trending page into insane person is a cracking joke.

All thanks to @Poolitzer!

> what is now fixed

You and the user should care because this is not a bug fix. It is an entirely new feature. Unless we explain it with an example, the user will not know how it works. It is not intuitive, building a queue in reverse, or that the backstack remains attached to the minimised player. Moreover, actions related to this interfere with previously expected behaviour. We have already had to explain it to users while the PR was in development and I expect we'll still have to for some time after the release.

Author: Not the example, this:
> You were able do this earlier, but you had to use the background or popup player queues as a workaround, since the main player's queue isn't accessible outside of the player.

And now you will have to explain it to me what that passage does. I have read it 5 times. You can now use two methods to do the same thing? Is the point to make that the hacky way no longer works? It doesn't say that, and I have fully removed it.

> Minimizing the player instead of closing it means retaining your place in the video queue!

Author: ```suggestion
Minimizing the player instead of closing it means retaining your place in the video bread queue!
```

> Example: Watch a video, minimize it, then browse the trending page (you insane person). Watch some filth from there, then quickly minimize it. Now browse for some calming music, and finally watch a video about pandas.

Author: ```suggestion
Example: Be supposed to be doing something else, watch a video instead, minimize it, then browse _the trending page_ (you insane person). Watch some filth from there, then quickly minimize it, and shudder. Now browse for some calming music, and finally watch a video about pandas.
```

> Example: Be supposed to be doing something else, watch a video instead, minimize it, then browse _the trending page_ (you insane person). Watch some filth from there, then quickly minimize it, and shudder. Now browse for some calming music, and finally watch a video about pandas.

Author: ```suggestion
Example: Be supposed to be doing something else, watch a video instead, minimize it, then browse the _trending_ page (you insane person). Watch some filth from there, then quickly minimize it, and shudder. Now browse for some calming music, and finally watch a video about small pandas falling over.
```

> If player isn't closed (by using the cross button or swiping down on it), and instead stays minimized, you can tap back to go through those videos in reverse order! You are making history, as the lead role of your own exploration. Pick videos for a quickly built video queue before watching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the player isn't closed (by using the cross button or swiping down on it), and instead stays minimized, you can tap back to go through those videos in reverse order! You are making history, as the lead role of your own exploration. Pick videos for a quickly built video queue before watching.
```

> If the player isn't closed (by using the cross button or swiping down on it), and instead stays minimized, you can tap back to go through those videos in reverse order! You are making history, as the lead role of your own exploration. Pick videos for a quickly built video queue before watching.

Author: ```suggestion
If the player isn't closed (by using the cross button or swiping down on it), and instead stays minimized, you can tap "Back" to go through those videos in reverse order! You are making history, as the lead role of your own exploration. Pick videos for a quickly built video queue before watching.
```

> If the player isn't closed (by using the cross button or swiping down on it), and instead stays minimized, you can tap "Back" to go through those videos in reverse order! You are making history, as the lead role of your own exploration. Pick videos for a quickly built video queue before watching.

Author: ```suggestion
If the player isn't closed (by using the "X" button or swiping down on it), and instead stays minimized, you can tap "Back" to go through those videos in reverse order! You are making history, as the lead role of your own exploration. Pick videos for a quickly-built video queue before watching on the binge.
```

> Before this was only possible by using the background or popup player.

Author: ```suggestion
Before this was only possible by using the background or pop-up player.
```

Minimizing the player instead of closing it means retaining your place in the video bread queue!
Example: Be supposed to be doing something else, watch a video instead, minimize it, then browse _the trending page_ (you insane person). Watch some filth from there, then quickly minimize it, and shudder. Now browse for some calming music, and finally watch a video about pandas.

If the player isn't closed (by using the cross button or swiping down on it), and instead stays minimized, you can tap "Back" to go through those videos in reverse order! You are making history, as the lead role of your own exploration. Pick videos for a quickly built video queue before watching.
Before this was only possible by using the background or pop-up player.

### Thumbnail progress bar

> You can only see this when you play the video in the background or pop-up, but there is now a shiny new progress bar underneath the thumbnail! It updates in real time, gets a little counter and a red bar - it's great, really.  

Author: Why do I never know what is being communicated, without keeping prior material in mind for no good reason. Keep in the story, don't make spaghetti. Last sentence passable. The format is like a video though. Establish one voice, make it work.

Reviewer: > without keeping prior material in mind

What prior material? The sentence seems self-contained to me.

Author: The whatever relates to "this". I still don't know what it is. Is it the thumbnail? Is it the progress bar? Now there is another "it" to clear that up? Clear as mud! Is it the progress bar underneath, or is it the thumbnail. Lets get the boolean logic out to find out what this means. "a little counter and a red bar" is the help you get.

Bar progress, nail a thumb! If playing video in the background or in a pop-up, take note of the shiny progress bar underneath the thumbnail.
It updates in real time, with a little counter and a red bar. The audacity.
<img class="no-flow vertical" src="/img/screenshots/progress_bar.png"/>

> All of what you've read above was made possible by the lean and mean coding machine, the one and only - (drumroll) - [@avently](https://github.com/avently)! Seriously, you should all sacrifice your first born child in his name. Or just say thank you, whatever works out for ya (that would be kind of boring, though).

Author: This is just a blatant disregard for the attention of the reader. It is a video, it doesn't work at all in writing. There is again no level of sarcasm or irony established to pull off "you should all sacrifice your first born child in his name". I redid the intention, and it works. Decide what you want to say, don't make a full secondary clause in a sentence second-guessing it.

Reviewer: The entire point of the joke here is the contrast between the extreme action of 'sacrificing' versus the very tame action of 'thanking'. We don't need to establish a background for that, and there is no second-guessing.

This fine list of changes were made possible by the steadily awesome [@avently](https://github.com/avently). Let him live rent free in your head, as you bask in the fruits of his labour.

* * *

> On a serious note, this was a massive, massive change to not only the code, but also the app's workflow, so this PR was tested, reviewed and modified lots of times, over a long period of time, before it was allowed to see the light of day with this release. A huge thank you to you, [@avently](https://github.com/avently), for having the patience and dedication to keep adding features and bug fixes until everyone was satisfied! A different person probably would have gone insane. And a big thank you to the maintainers for doggedly reviewing this gigantic PR repeatedly. Those ~6600 additions and ~5600 removals must have felt intimidating!

Author: "On a serious note". No joke was made. It is trying to row itself back ashore. I don't know.
It seems unprofessional. I am not sure we can go "this" at this point. There are so many questions in my head at this point. "bug fixes" is not how it is done in the strings. This is now an acceptance speech. I don't want to know turmoil, I want to read about overcoming it.

Reviewer: > No joke was made.

Refer to my explanation of the joke in the review above.

> I am not sure we can go "this" at this point.

We have already said above that "all this was thanks to avently", so yes, we can go "this" without any problem. It's not like we suddenly started talking about something different in the middle. We're still talking about avently's changes.

> "bug fixes" is not how it is done in the strings.

We'll come back to this after you have explained what "the strings" are.

Author: The NewPipe app strings.

> This massive, massive change to not only the code, but also the app's workflow, meant the PR had to be tested, reviewed and modified lots of times, over a long period of time. A huge thank you to you, [@avently](https://github.com/avently), for having the patience and dedication to keep adding features and bug-fixes until everyone was satisfied! A different person probably would have gone insane. And a big thank you to the maintainers for doggedly reviewing this gigantic PR repeatedly. Totalling ~6600 additions and ~5600 removals, the hat is off.

Reviewer 2: Bug fixes is the correct spelling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This massive, massive change to not only the code, but also the app's workflow, meant the PR had to be tested, reviewed and modified lots of times, over a long period of time. A huge thank you to you, [@avently](https://github.com/avently), for having the patience and dedication to keep adding features and bug-fixes until everyone was satisfied! A different person probably would have gone insane. And a big thank you to the maintainers for doggedly reviewing this gigantic PR repeatedly. Totalling ~6600 additions and ~5600 removals. The hat is off.
```

> This massive, massive change to not only the code, but also the app's workflow, meant the PR had to be tested, reviewed and modified lots of times, over a long period of time. A huge thank you to you, [@avently](https://github.com/avently), for having the patience and dedication to keep adding features and bug-fixes until everyone was satisfied! A different person probably would have gone insane. And a big thank you to the maintainers for doggedly reviewing this gigantic PR repeatedly. Totalling ~6600 additions and ~5600 removals, the hat is off.

Author: ```suggestion
This massive, massive change to not only the code, but also the app's workflow, meant the PR had to be tested, reviewed and modified lots of times, over a long period of time. A huge thank you to [@avently](https://github.com/avently), for having the patience and dedication to keep adding features and bug-fixes until everyone was satisfied! A different person probably would have gone insane. And a big thank you to the maintainers for doggedly reviewing this gigantic PR repeatedly. Totalling ~6600 additions and ~5600 removals, the hat is off.
```

> This massive, massive change to not only the code, but also the app's workflow, meant the PR had to be tested, reviewed and modified lots of times, over a long period of time. A huge thank you to [@avently](https://github.com/avently), for having the patience and dedication to keep adding features and bug-fixes until everyone was satisfied! A different person probably would have gone insane. And a big thank you to the maintainers for doggedly reviewing this gigantic PR repeatedly. Totalling ~6600 additions and ~5600 removals, the hat is off.

Author: ```suggestion
These massive changes to not only the code, but also the app's workflow, meant its PR had to be tested, reviewed and modified over and over, over a long period of time. A huge thank you to [@avently](https://github.com/avently), for having the patience and dedication to keep adding features and bug-fixes to satisfy all. A weaker person would have gone insane. And a big thank you to the maintainers for doggedly reviewing this gigantic PR, repeatedly. Totaling ~6600 additions and ~5600 removals, the hat is off.
```

This massive, massive change to not only the code, but also the app's workflow, meant the PR had to be tested, reviewed and modified lots of times, over a long period of time. A huge thank you to [@avently](https://github.com/avently), for having the patience and dedication to keep adding features and bug-fixes until everyone was satisfied! A different person probably would have gone insane. And a big thank you to the maintainers for doggedly reviewing this gigantic PR repeatedly. Totalling ~6600 additions and ~5600 removals, the hat is off.

> Naturally, since this was such a massive change, several bugs also slipped through. But [@avently](https://github.com/avently), with the help of [@blackbox87](https://github.com/blackbox87), [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) fixed them rapidly as they were reported. 

Author: There was already "massive, massive change". Now there is "massive change". I am dying a thousand deaths reading that. "fixed them rapidly as they were reported" is an unclear construction.

Reviewer: Agreed. We could have used a different word. 'Major', perhaps.

> "fixed them rapidly as they were reported" is an unclear construction.

In what way? Is it ambiguous? Misleading?

Author: It can mean two things. Not quite ambiguous.

> This evolution saw evolutionary bugs in its wake. [@avently](https://github.com/avently), with the help of [@blackbox87](https://github.com/blackbox87), [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) swatted as the reports came in. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This evolution saw evolutionary bugs in its wake. [@avently](https://github.com/avently), with the help of [@blackbox87](https://github.com/blackbox87), [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) swatted the bugs as the reports came in. 
```

This evolution saw evolutionary bugs in its wake. [@avently](https://github.com/avently), with the help of [@blackbox87](https://github.com/blackbox87), [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) swatted as the reports came in. 

## The Notification is dead, long live the Notification!

> If you care about such things, you have likely noticed that NewPipe's notification looks quite different from most media player apps these days. It has a progress bar, buttons in odd places, and a permanent grey colour. This is because NewPipe uses an old API for notifications called RemoteView. This allowed for a lot of customisation, and that was good at the time it was in vogue. However, it has been deprecated and superseded by a more modern API.

Author: What are "such things". The above, the following.??? OK, the following. What? Why is that different. No, I haven't noticed. Ah, is it? Well. Why? Why does the reader care it is different, and what its technical name is. OK, the reader now knows all that, and for what? "deprecated and superseded". OK, discarding. Modern API. OK, there is a more modern API now for notifications. That is all the content worth taking in this whole section.

Reviewer: > No, I haven't noticed.

That means you _don't_ care about such things. ;) What's the problem? Just skip this section, as other readers will.

> Why does the reader care it is different, and what its technical name is.

Does giving the name somehow cause the end of the world? It is just trivia for those who are interested. Those who aren't can just skip it or forget about it.

> That is all the content worth taking in this whole section.

Again, for those who "don't care" like the very first sentence says, in which case, just move on.

Author: So what could be interesting isn't, because it doesn't matter when it isn't? Solid logic.

As a pedant, you have noticed NewPipe's notification is different from most other media apps. It has the bar of progress, buttons in odd places, and a permanent, though tepid grey colour. Much of the difference is down to using an old API for notifications called RemoteView, _in the past_!

Enter the **Age of MediaStyle notification**:

> This is a special notification type which has been available for media apps to use since Android Lollipop. In Oreo, it gained the ability to be coloured to match the colour theme of the cover art of the music playing. And since Android 10, it has a seekbar built right into it! It is a powerful API that removes the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what we had so far. This will make it far easier to maintain and improve NewPipe's notification. Win for development! So let's get on with what is new and what has changed.

Author: It is now a presentation. Why does the reader care how long the new one has been around? What does it do I wonder? I am getting a chronology I didn't ask for. There is an explanation of the obvious. Yes, let us go on, where did we go where I only know the versions and what changed?

Reviewer: > Why does the reader care how long the new one has been around?

>  I am getting a chronology I didn't ask for.

You're getting an entire blog post you didn't ask for. Users come to read the blog post because they are interested in what we have to say. So we say things. Going by your comments so far, we should apparently just delete the entire blog post and replace it with a link to the release notes on Github.

> There is an explanation of the obvious.

Obvious to you, not everyone else. Which average user goes around reading about MediaStyle notifications in their free time?

> where did we go where I only know the versions and what changed?

"So let's get on with what is new and what has changed."

Author: I am getting a blog post about NewPipe 0.20.0 because it was just released. Tangentially something about MediaStyle. A whole chronology, and then partly repeated?
We should replace that with the version I took the time to clean up.

> This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop. In Oreo (8.0), it could colour-match its theme to the cover art of the music playing. Since Android 10, it has a seek-bar built in. It is a powerful API removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!

Author: ```suggestion
This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop. In Oreo (8.0), it could colour-match its theme to the cover art of the music playing. Since Android 10, it has a SeekBar built in. It is a powerful API removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!
```

> This is a special notification type which available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop. In Oreo (8.0), it could colour-match its theme to the cover art of the music playing. Since Android 10, it has a seek-bar built in. It is a powerful API removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!

Author: ```suggestion
This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop. In Oreo (8.0), it could colour-match its theme to the cover art of the music playing. Since Android 10, it has a seek-bar built in. It is a powerful API removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!
```

> This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop. In Oreo (8.0), it could colour-match its theme to the cover art of the music playing. Since Android 10, it has a SeekBar built in. It is a powerful API removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!

Author: ```suggestion
This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop, colour-matching its theme to the cover art playing, and in 10 got a SeekBar. It is a powerful API removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what once was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!
```

> ### Android 9

Author: ```suggestion
```

This is a special notification type available for media apps since Android (5.0) Lollipop. In Oreo (8.0), it could colour-match its theme to the cover art of the music playing. Since Android 10, it has a SeekBar built in. It is a powerful API removing the need to use a whole bunch of custom code to achieve what was. Easier to maintain and improve. Win!

### Android 9

> First of all, we say "sorry" to our users on Android 9 and below. The progress bar is gone. As we've said above, it will only be shown on Android 10 and above. We're a small team and can't maintain code for the old and new types of notifications simultaneously, so the old one has to go. And not just that; the old notification isn't even supported Android 11 onwards. Bye-bye RemoteView notifications. We shall miss you! :'(

Author: Android 9. So we are reiterating what is happening on Android 9 with the MediaStyle?
Why is 9 a category and 8 and 5 isn't? Am I meant to remember what happened to 5 and 8 while we are now at 9? We aren't at 9, we are in some sort of apologetic I don't know what.
"The progress bar is gone". What? OK, from the notifications. Already been over why more crufty code is bad actually. The reader was promised "what is new", and what is new is what?
Why does anyone miss old crufty code? Make up your mind.

Reviewer: > So we are reiterating what is happening on Android 9 with the MediaStyle?

"Reiterating" means we've talked about Android 9 already before that point. Can you point it out? I can't.

> Why is 9 a category and 8 and 5 isn't? Am I meant to remember what happened to 5 and 8 while we are now at 9? 

"Android 9 **and below**".

> The reader was promised "what is new"

"and what has changed."

> But you get a lot in exchange for that sacrifice!

Author: Again with the sacrifice. Wasn't good the first time. This is still an apologetic tirade of a blogpost. The reader is meant to feel ambivalent about choices? Nobody is invested in an old way to display notifications. It is a detail.

Reviewer: > Again with the sacrifice. Wasn't good the first time. This is still an apologetic tirade of a blogpost.

The first time it was a joke. (Refer to explanation above.)

This time, it is an actual trade-off. This is the first time we apologise, so I don't see how one apology can make it "an apologetic tirade of a blogpost".

> The reader is meant to feel ambivalent about choices?

The reader is given a reason why the progress bar they liked is now gone.

> Nobody is invested in an old way to display notifications.

Author: There is some reason for that, the blogpost doesn't help in the matter.

> Android 9 is not Android 10, and there is now only a progress bar on 10. It makes sense to keep things managable by our small team. The old notification isn't even supported Android 11 onwards. RemoteView notifications are out, MediaStyle is in.

Author: ```suggestion
Android 9 is not Android 10, and there is now only a progress bar on 10. It makes sense to keep things managable by our small team. The old notification isn't even supported on Android 11 onwards. RemoteView notifications are out, MediaStyle is in.
```

> Android 9 is not Android 10, and there is now only a progress bar on 10. It makes sense to keep things managable by our small team. The old notification isn't even supported on Android 11 onwards. RemoteView notifications are out, MediaStyle is in.

Author: ```suggestion
There is only a progress bar in from Android 10 onward. It makes sense, to keep things manageable by our small team. The old notification isn't even supported in Android 11.
RemoteView notifications are out, MediaStyle is in.
```

> Your sacrifice is not in vain:

Author: ```suggestion
```

Android 9 is not Android 10, and there is now only a progress bar on 10. It makes sense to keep things managable by our small team. The old notification isn't even supported on Android 11 onwards. RemoteView notifications are out, MediaStyle is in.
Your sacrifice is not in vain:

### New features

> You get five CUSTOMISABLE - you read it right! - **CUSTOMISABLE** action buttons to control playback. There is a new <code><img src="/img/icons/play_arrow-24dp.svg" /> notification</code> category in the app settings, and you can choose which button should perform which player action. Play/pause, forward/rewind, previous/next, shuffle, repeat, close, or even nothing!

Author: Now this is a sales-pitch. With CAPITAL LETTERS. That isn't done in the strings, and it shouldn't be done anywhere. It is shouting, and then it is shouting in bold text. I have buttons and I control playback, and I control playback, and what does playback mean in terms of buttons. Oh man.

Reviewer: > Now this is a sales-pitch.

It is meant to read like one. That is why we went completely over the top with it. That _is_ the joke.

> That isn't done in the strings

Again, we'll address this after your explanation of "the strings".

> It is shouting, and then it is shouting in bold text.

Sales pitch tone. Intentional for joke.

> I have buttons and I control playback, and I control playback, and what does playback mean in terms of buttons. Oh man.

Yes, standard sales pitch stuff. Over-emphasising what doesn't need to be over-emphasised.

Author: There is no distance established though, it just mimics the unwanted.

> Button up or button down, you get five **customisable** action buttons to control playback. There is a new <code><img src="/img/icons/play_arrow-24dp.svg" /> notification</code> category in the app settings, from where you can pick actions and the buttons to carry out your bidding. Play/pause, forward/rewind, previous/next, shuffle, repeat, close, or even nothing! The decadency.

Author: ```suggestion
Button up or button down, you get five **customisable** action buttons to control playback. Batteries not included. There is a new <code><img src="/img/icons/play_arrow-24dp.svg" /> notification</code> category in the app settings, from where you can pick actions and the buttons to carry out your bidding. Play/pause, forward/rewind, previous/next, shuffle, repeat, close, or even nothing! The decadency.
```

Button up or button down, you get five **customisable** action buttons to control playback. Batteries not included. There is a new <code><img src="/img/icons/play_arrow-24dp.svg" /> notification</code> category in the app settings, from where you can pick actions and the buttons to carry out your bidding. Play/pause, forward/rewind, previous/next, shuffle, repeat, close, or even nothing! The decadency.

> Then, you can choose which three of these five buttons show in the compact notification (remember that little arrow you use to expand/contract the notification?).

Author: I am so tired of buttons. None of my imagination is captured. What about the little arrow I supposedly use to contract the notifications? Loose ends.

Reviewer: This is important to mention because even I didn't know what a compact notification was until it was discussed in the PR, so I can't expect the user to know, can I?

They will upgrade to the new version, see the new Notification menu, and be baffled by the "3 out of 5 check marks thingy". "Why can't I select all 5? Or even 4? The toast says compact notification, but what does that even mean? I can still see all 5 buttons when I play a video."

Here we explain what it means.

> Three of these five buttons can be shown in the compact notification (remember that little arrow you use to expand/contract the notification?).

Author: ```suggestion
Three of these five buttons can be shown in the compact notification (the little arrow used to expand/contract a notification.).
```

Three of these five buttons can be shown in the compact notification (remember that little arrow you use to expand/contract the notification?).

> For users on **Android 8+**: Colours! Warm colours. Cool colours. All the colours! As we've noted above, MediaStyle notifications adapt to the colours of the cover art, which looks just plain awesome.

Author: We were on 9, now we are on 8. We have noted above, what we shouldn't note again. Where are we? There is no "plain awesome", that is an oxymoron. I can imagine, but I am none the wiser.

Reviewer: > We were on 9, now we are on 8. We have noted above, what we shouldn't note again.

Nice poem, but we are on "New features", not "Android 9". You missed the change in subheading.

> There is no "plain awesome", that is an oxymoron.

This is a pretty frequently used expression. You can search for it online.

> This function is good, sorry you have to read about someone else experiencing it.

I suppose we should make separate blog posts for every Android version, then?

For the betrodden of **Android 8+**: Colours! Warm colours. Cool colours. All the colours! As noted above, MediaStyle notifications adapt to cover art colours. Big.

> For users on **Android 10+**: Seekbar! The old notification had a progress bar, but that was just a visual indicator. Now you can actually seek from the notification itself. Marvel at the massive boost in convenience, and have fun seeking!

Author: It isn't "seekbar", it is "SeekBar". We know the old version had a progress bar, because, it was mentioned already. "that was just a visual indicator" isn't doing anything.
"Have fun seeking" is going somewhere. Almost.

Reviewer: > It isn't "seekbar", it is "SeekBar".

Okay. You were skeptical about us mentioning "RemoteView" above but now you insist on us using the proper object name in the code?

> We know the old version had a progress bar, because, it was mentioned already. "that was just a visual indicator" isn't doing anything.

It _is_ doing something, namely, contrasting between the old and the new notifications. You can seek on the new one, but not on the old one. New feature being highlighted. That is one of the goals of the blog post.

> "Have fun seeking" is going somewhere. Almost.

I had originally made a Harry Potter Quidditch reference, but @Poolitzer removed it because he is an old and boring person. He is not 'hip' at all. ಠ╭╮ಠ

Reviewer 3: So I finally found a way to see what comment pinged me since GitHub definitly isn't made for whatever you two are doing, and this is the message. Wow. Thanks. No one likes Harry Potter anyway.

Reviewer: ಠ▃ಠ

> For the modern human using **Android 10+**: Seekbar! The old notification had a progress bar, but that was just a visual indicator. Now you can actually seek from the notification itself. Marvel at the massive boost in convenience, and you shall find what you seek.

Author: ```suggestion
For the modern human using **Android 10+**: SeekBar! The old notification had a progress bar, but that was just a visual indicator. Now you can actually seek from the notification itself. Marvel at the massive boost in convenience, and you shall find what you seek.
```

> For the modern human using **Android 10+**: SeekBar! The old notification had a progress bar, but that was just a visual indicator. Now you can actually seek from the notification itself. Marvel at the massive boost in convenience, and you shall find what you seek.

Author: ```suggestion
For the modern human using **Android 10+**: SeekBar! The old notification had a progress bar. Now you can actually seek from the notification itself. Marvel at the massive boost in convenience, and you shall find what you seek.
```

For the modern human using **Android 10+**: SeekBar! The old notification had a progress bar, but that was just a visual indicator. Now you can actually seek from the notification itself. Marvel at the massive boost in convenience, and you shall find what you seek.

> For users on **Android 11**: Congratulations! You get a notification now! NewPipe's media session will show up in the notification shade and in Quick Settings just as advertised.

Author: Triple "for users on". Do something with it. Double shouting at the reader. "media session"? unreferenced Quick Settings. Advertised where?

Reviewer: > Triple "for users on". Do something with it.

What did TheAssassin say? Anaphora? Anaphora. 😎

> Double shouting at the reader. 

Exclamation marks aren't shouting. All caps is shouting. Refer to sales pitch joke above.

> "media session"?

Android 11 marketing terminology. We just use it as is.

> unreferenced Quick Settings. Advertised where?

By Google in all Android 11 marketing material.

Author: This is "mimicking" spam, which is to say it is spam. Android 11 marketing material doesn't change how language works for everyone else. It isn't a sales pitch joke if you can't pull it off, it is a joke of a sales pitch.

For the beyond human users of **Android 11**: Congratulations! You get a notification! NewPipe's media session shows up in the notification shade and in "Quick Settings", just as advertised. Enjoy the envy of the world.

<div class="media-row media-items-2">
<img class="no-flow img-responsive" style="align-self: center" src="/img/screenshots/notification_9.png"/>
<img class="no-flow vertical" src="/img/screenshots/notification_11.png"/>
</div>

> This cool contribution was brought to us in its original form by [@cool-student](https://github.com/cool-student). Sadly, we couldn't get in touch with them when we were ready to focus on this PR, so [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688) and [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) swooped in to save the day! [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688) updated the code to conform to our standards and coding style, and [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) did the (painstaking!) work of rebasing the code after the unified player PR was merged into the development branch.

Author: Don't use "them" for known single pronoun. That is poor language. Use "the person", use "the author", anything. "their work". OK, standard fare. Neither here nor there.

Reviewer: > Don't use "them" for known single pronoun. That is poor language.

No, it is commonly accepted usage for persons of unknown gender. Check online.

> Use "the person", use "the author", anything. 

Using a noun again and again is poor ~~language~~ grammar. That is why we have pronouns. Dude, this is school level stuff.

> "their work"

Where is that? I don't see it.

Author: It is used for third person singular unknown in English. You are using it for known singular.

> Ultimately, he took over the responsibility for this PR. He updated and polished the UI, fixed bugs, got everyone and their grandfather to test the changes, and pulled us to the finish line!

Author: Double "he". Polished the UI how? OK, nice, this is a story with an end, and a nice one. Good.

This cool contribution, brought to you in original form by [@cool-student](https://github.com/cool-student). When ready to focus on this PR, no means of contact could be established, so [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688) and [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) swooped in to save the day! [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688) updated the code to conform to our standards and coding style, and [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) did the (painstaking!) work of rebasing the code after the unified player PR was merged into the development branch.

Ultimately, he took over the responsibility for this PR. He updated and polished the UI, fixed bugs, got everyone and their grandfather to test the changes, and pulled us to the finish line!

## Improvements

> We are not done yet with what this release brings you (you may want to take a few sips of that beverage now). If you use an environment where resizing an app is possible, NewPipe can do this now as well, thanks to [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr).

Author: For the first time there is something tying a previous concept together, but it is interrupting the flow that was almost established. Is my environment able to resize, or?

Reviewer: "If you use an environment..." should have started from a new paragraph. This is an oversight. Or maybe a late addition that slipped in, I don't remember.

Take this moment to sip from the nectars of your beverage. [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) lets you resize NewPipe provided it is possible in your environment.

> Have you ever shared a URL to NewPipe, just to be greeted with a little "Unsupported URL" toast? Well, the app still doesn't support those kinds of URLs with this release, but at least we show you a way better error message now! It allows you to reshare the URL or just offers to open it in a browser instead. All this, thanks to [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and to [@webber-naut](https://github.com/webber-naut) for bringing our attention to this in the first place. 

Author: Don't take me on this ride again. Funny concept, punchline, works.

Reviewer: > Don't take me on this ride again. 

What ride?

Author: The "Have you ever".

> Have you ever been sandwitch between sharing a URL to NewPipe, and a little "Unsupported URL" toast? Well, those URLs are still unsupported, but now the error message is great! It allows you to reshare the URL or just open it in a web-browser instead. All this, thanks to [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@webber-naut](https://github.com/webber-naut) for bringing this to our attention in the first place. 

Reviewer 2: Is this what you meant? I couldn't find the word in any dictionary.
```suggestion
Have you ever been sandwiched between sharing a URL to NewPipe, and a little "Unsupported URL" toast? Well, those URLs are still unsupported, but now the error message is great! It allows you to reshare the URL or just open it in a web-browser instead. All this, thanks to [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@webber-naut](https://github.com/webber-naut) for bringing this to our attention in the first place. 
```

Author: I looked it up because it looked wrong, and forgot to change it.

Have you ever been sandwiched between sharing a URL to NewPipe, and a little "Unsupported URL" toast? Well, those URLs are still unsupported, but now the error message is great! It allows you to reshare the URL or just open it in a web-browser instead. All this, thanks to [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) and [@webber-naut](https://github.com/webber-naut) for bringing this to our attention in the first place. 

> Talking about sharing, when you share a live stream with someone, NewPipe doesn't add a timestamp to the URL any more. This was done by [@nmurali94](https://github.com/nmurali94). Thanks.

Author: Talking about sharing ties together, good. "live stream".? What would that be, timestamp?

Reviewer: > "live stream".?

Are you asking what a live stream is?

> What would that be, timestamp?

That is when you share a video link that loads the video for the user at a specific time instead of the beginning.

> Talking about sharing, when you share a live stream with someone, NewPipe doesn't add a timestamp to the URL any more. This was done by [@nmurali94](https://github.com/nmurali94). Thanks :)

Author: ```suggestion
Talking about sharing, when you share a live-stream with someone, NewPipe doesn't add a timestamp to the URL any more. This was done by [@nmurali94](https://github.com/nmurali94). Thanks :)
```

Talking about sharing, when you share a live stream with someone, NewPipe doesn't add a timestamp to the URL any more. This was done by [@nmurali94](https://github.com/nmurali94). Thanks :)

> The header layout has been improved: the alignment on the sides is consistent now and longer headings can fit themselves on two lines instead of just one.

Author: Header layout of what? Don't know what this is.

Reviewer: Another thing that slipped through. It should have been "playlist header layout" and should have mentioned Stypox. :(

The header layout has improved: The alignment on the sides is consistent, and longer headings can expand to two lines.

> If you ever tried to search something and then lost connection to the internet, or just tried to search while being offline, you would have noticed that NewPipe didn't let you type your search term. Instead it kept on rudely interrupting you with a network error. That is fixed now. You can type all you want, and it will only fail if you actually hit enter or press the search button. Both of these changes were brought to you by [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox). Thanks!

Author: Another ride. Great. Why does anyone have to be in it. So long.

Reviewer: > So long.

"If you tried X or Y, Z happened. This is fixed now. Now you can do Y freely." Doesn't seem all that problematic.

> "Internet" with big i.

True.

> Being rudely interrupted by a network error is a thing of the past. Type all you want, and accept defeat after the fact. Both of these changes brought to you by [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox). Thanks!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Being rudely interrupted by a network error is a thing of the past. Type all you want, and accept defeat after the fact. Both of these changes are brought to you by [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox). Thanks!
```

Author: Redundant, doesn't match the above.

Reviewer 2: But it's not a complete sentence.

Author: This commercial brought to you by __
This statement brought to you by __
The attempt is to tie in with "in stereo where available" type language which is used for the "Wi-Fi equipment". It doesn't work as well as I had imagined.

The thing worse than searching while offline, or losing your connection to the Internet when doing it, is that NewPipe didn't let you type your search term.
Being rudely interrupted by a network error is a thing of the past. Type all you want, and accept defeat after the fact. Both of these changes brought to you by [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox). Thanks!

> In order to save some of that valuable mobile data, you were already able to turn off video thumbnails and profile pictures for comments. Now even the black placeholders which replaced them are gone and comments can comfortably take up the space left behind. Thanks, [@4D17Y4](https://github.com/4D17Y4)!

Author: What is this about. Start with a point, then make it count. Uuuugh.

Reviewer: Same point from before. "Earlier; now" vs "now; earlier". Why does it matter?

> To save valuable mobile data, turning off video thumbnails and profile pictures for comments was already possible. Now even the black placeholders which replaced them are gone, and comments can comfortably take up the space left over. Thanks, [@4D17Y4](https://github.com/4D17Y4)!

Author: ```suggestion
To save valuable mobile data, turning off video thumbnails and profile pictures for comments was already possible. Now even the black placeholders which replaced them are gone, and salty comments can comfortably take up the space left over. Thanks, [@4D17Y4](https://github.com/4D17Y4)!
```

To save valuable mobile data, turning off video thumbnails and profile pictures for comments was already possible. Now even the black placeholders which replaced them are gone, and comments can comfortably take up the space left over. Thanks, [@4D17Y4](https://github.com/4D17Y4)!

> [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) brought two more improvements into this release: the setting to remember pop-up size and position has a less redundant description, and when you switch to another app, the main player now minimizes to background audio by default to allow for a more seamless transition. Swoosh.

Author: What? What? What? Oh, at the end. Well, swoosh.

Reviewer: xD sorry, what?

[@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) brought two more improvements: The setting to remember pop-up size and position has a less redundant description, and when switching to another app, the main player now minimizes to play audio in the background by default. Seamless transition. Swoosh.

> It's 2020, and our default resolutions also realized this. Instead of having 360p everywhere, main player videos are opened in 720p at 60FPS now, and pop-up ones in 480p. Thank you, [@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol). NewPipe now also remembers what kind of media you downloaded the last time, and will auto-select it when you hit download on a new video. This was done by [@vmazoyer](https://github.com/vmazoyer).

Author: 2020 default resolutions, attempt but no cigar. unreferenced "Download".

Reviewer: > attempt but no cigar.

Waaaaaat?

> unreferenced "Download".

Should have been the next paragraph. This @Poolitzer I tell you. Doesn't listen to me at all. Damn you, Poolitzer! xD

Reviewer 3: let me put two things in one paragraph got damn it.

Reviewer: Nyo. ಠ╭╮ಠ

> It is the current year, 2020, in higher resolution. Instead of having 360p everywhere, main player videos are opened in 720p at 60FPS, and pop-up ones in 480p. Thank you, [@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol). NewPipe now also remembers what kind of media you downloaded last time, and will auto-select it when you hit "Download" on a new video. This was done by [@vmazoyer](https://github.com/vmazoyer).

Author: ```suggestion
It is the current year, 2020, in higher resolution. Instead of 360p everywhere, main player videos are 720p at 60FPS, and pop-up ones are 480p. Thank you, [@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol). Your NewPipe now also remembers what kind of media you downloaded last time, and will auto-select it when you hit "Download" on a new video. This was done by [@vmazoyer](https://github.com/vmazoyer).
```

It is the current year, 2020, in higher resolution. Instead of having 360p everywhere, main player videos are opened in 720p at 60FPS, and pop-up ones in 480p. Thank you, [@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol). NewPipe now also remembers what kind of media you downloaded last time, and will auto-select it when you hit "Download" on a new video. This was done by [@vmazoyer](https://github.com/vmazoyer).

> Since 'Autoplay' is a new configurable setting in this release, [@opusforlife2](https://github.com/opusforlife2) changed the 'Autoplay' toggle in the video details to say "Auto-queue" instead. Now it's clearer what that toggle does without leaving room for any confusion.

Author: is "any" meant to be some kind of point I am missing here?

Reviewer: "leaving no room for confusion"?

> Since 'Autoplay' is a new configurable setting in this release, [@opusforlife2](https://github.com/opusforlife2) changed the 'Autoplay' toggle in the video details to say "Auto-queue" instead. Now it's clearer what that toggle does without leaving room for any confusion.

Author: ```suggestion
Since 'Autoplay' is a new configurable setting in this release, [@opusforlife2](https://github.com/opusforlife2) changed the 'Autoplay' toggle in the video details to say "Auto-queue" instead. Now it's clearer what that toggle does without leaving room for confusion.
```

Since 'Autoplay' is a new configurable setting in this release, [@opusforlife2](https://github.com/opusforlife2) changed the 'Autoplay' toggle in the video details to say "Auto-queue" instead. Now it's clearer what that toggle does without leaving room for confusion.

### More Translation updates and improvements

> Apart from the language improvements mentioned above, some other interesting localization changes happened in this release. [@comradekingu](https://github.com/comradekingu), a frequent contributor to and language checker of NewPipe and other open source projects, has once again taken a close look at our strings. There was, as always, a lot of room for improvement. Our wonderful translators rushed to help and immediately implemented his suggestions.

Author: Localization isn't interesting. Language improvements aren't interesting. I am not interesting. I don't work on "open source", and that isn't how that is written. I work on libre software. I am not suggesting, I am changing the source language. The reader isn't involved in the process, and that is a shame, because rarely do you see any localization in the changelog.

Reviewer: > Localization isn't interesting. Language improvements aren't interesting. I am not interesting.

TobiGr thought your contributions are important and wanted to mention them. We agree. You might not want the credit but you will have it either way. Deal with it. 😎

> I don't work on "open source".... I work on libre software. 

"and other open source **projects**"

But sure, next time we'll say "libre software projects". Good?

> I am not suggesting, I am changing the source language.

Yeah, that slipped in at the last moment. Should have been changed.

> The reader isn't involved in the process, and that is a shame, because rarely do you see any localization in the changelog. Opportunity missed.

That's why we need you. ;)

Author: @opusforlife2 
No, not good. Bad.
I don't want to be part of this blogpost. It is bad, and it misrepresents me.
For whatever I do here, I am done. You need your egos.

> Happyily there are **new NewPipe languages** in this release: Sardinian, Bengali, Portuguese (Portugal), Neapolitan and Berber.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Happily there are **new NewPipe languages** in this release: Sardinian, Bengali, Portuguese (Portugal), Neapolitan and Berber.
```

> On the topic of language, you may find it improved in this release, and in other forms of written NewPipe material. [Allan Nordhøy](https://github.com/comradekingu) landed another pleasant and hopefully indistingishable effort. There was, as always, unmaintained walls leaning on room for improvement. The always wonderful translators have carried those improvements onto all languages and some in turn back into English.

Author: ```suggestion
On the topic of language, you may find it improved in this release, and in other forms of written NewPipe material. [Allan Nordhøy](https://github.com/comradekingu) landed another pleasant and hopefully indistinguishable effort. There was, as always, unmaintained walls leaning on room for improvement. The always wonderful translators have carried those improvements onto all languages and some in turn back into English.
```

On the topic of language, you may find it improved in this release, and in other forms of written NewPipe material. [Allan Nordhøy](https://github.com/comradekingu) landed another pleasant and hopefully indistingishable effort. There was, as always, unmaintained walls leaning on room for improvement. The always wonderful translators have carried those improvements onto all languages and some in turn back into English.

> We are also happy to provide **new localizations** in this release: Sardinian, Bengali, Portuguese (Portugal), Neapolitan and Berber.

Author: Who is "we". Not sure "Berber" is a language? Isn't it Berber something?

Reviewer: The team that makes the app. Team NewPipe.

Happily there are **new NewPipe languages** in this release: Sardinian, Bengali, Portuguese (Portugal), Neapolitan and Berber.

> If you are missing a translation or think a phrase needs adjustment, head over to [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/newpipe/) and help us improve NewPipe's translation even more!

Author: Us? No. It is the user's itch. It helps _other users_.

Reviewer: "and help us improve NewPipe's translation even more so that other users of your language can benefit!"?

Author: Still bad. 18 words to say "Improve the app translation for yourself and others alike". or similar.

Improving matters is as easy as heading over to [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/newpipe/) to fix even the source strings.

## Fixes

> If you noticed that next to offline search input now working, the actual text of the suggestions look better now, you are correct. [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) changed the colours used to the default ones.

Author: Haven't noticed. Fail. Joke doesn't work. It is used like that elsewhere. This just downplays the effort.

Reviewer: There is no joke here. xD

You see jokes where there are none, and fail to see them where they exist. :P

Author: If this isn't an attempt at a joke, then it is just even poorer. I don't notice in-jokes based on books I read over 20 years ago.

> Next to the now working offline search input, the actual text of the suggestions look better now. [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) changed the colours to the NewPipe palette.

Author: ```suggestion
Next to the now working offline search input, the actual text of the suggestions look better. [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) changed the colours to the NewPipe palette.
```

Next to the now working offline search input, the actual text of the suggestions look better now. [@TobiGr](https://github.com/TobiGr) changed the colours to the NewPipe palette.

> An empty error report in certain kinds of crashes is not empty anymore, since [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) took care of properly calling code. Yay, code! He also fixed a crash when NewPipe encounters an empty comment. Now it will be displayed just as empty as it is.

Author: Empty error report, can anything be done with empty error report. The mundane is the mundane. I feel empty reading this.

Reviewer: Doesn't matter. We mention every PR in the blog post no matter how small it is, because we want to show appreciation for every little contribution. This will not change.

A spooky empty error report in certain kinds of crashes will no longer be empty, courtesy of [@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox) taking care of properly calling the code. Yay, code! He also fixed a crash when NewPipe encounters an empty comment. Now it will be displayed just as empty as it is. Ding an sich.

> Thanks to [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688), you can open a video in the local playlist tab (and potentially other locations), whereas earlier, the app would crash. And thanks to [@BoFFire](https://github.com/BoFFire), if you open the app in the Taqbaylit language, its called `Taqbaylit` now and not `Tamaziɣt Taqbaylit`.

Author: What, then who. Whereas isn't a good tool there. "And thanks to" is a terribad way to start a sentence. Never. "its" isn't "it is" or "it's".

Reviewer: > What, then who.

Sure. I'm fine with either.

> Whereas isn't a good tool there. 

It is used like it is supposed to be. https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/whereas#Conjunction

> "And thanks to" is a terribad way to start a sentence. 

Yeah, that's again something that should be a separate paragraph. Trying to join them creates problems like these.

> "its" isn't "it is" or "it's".

Correct. Slipped through.

> Instead of causing a crash, thanks to [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688), you can open a video in the local playlist tab (and potentially other locations). Thanks to [@BoFFire](https://github.com/BoFFire), if you open the app in the Taqbaylit language, it is correctly called `Taqbaylit` now and not `Tamaziɣt Taqbaylit`.

Author: ```suggestion
Instead of causing a crash, thanks to [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688), you can open a video in the local playlist tab (and potentially other locations). Thanks to [@BoFFire](https://github.com/BoFFire), if you open the app in the Taqbaylit language, it goes by that name, and not `Tamaziɣt Taqbaylit`.
```

> Instead of causing a crash, thanks to [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688), you can open a video in the local playlist tab (and potentially other locations). Thanks to [@BoFFire](https://github.com/BoFFire), if you open the app in the Taqbaylit language, it correctly called `Taqbaylit` now and not `Tamaziɣt Taqbaylit`.

Author: ```suggestion
Instead of causing a crash, thanks to [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688), you can open a video in the local playlist tab (and potentially other locations). Thanks to [@BoFFire](https://github.com/BoFFire), if you open the app in the Taqbaylit language, it is correctly called `Taqbaylit` now and not `Tamaziɣt Taqbaylit`.
```

Instead of causing a crash, thanks to [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688), you can open a video in the local playlist tab (and potentially other locations). Thanks to [@BoFFire](https://github.com/BoFFire), if you open the app in the Taqbaylit language, it goes by that name, and not `Tamaziɣt Taqbaylit`.

> The license pop-up doesn't disappear when you change orientation now. This was introduced by [@nmurali94](https://github.com/nmurali94). And [@budde92](https://github.com/budde25) ensured that you can now delete a file you just downloaded and then try to re-download it without the app crashing. We are not sure why you'd want to do this, but now you can do so without any worries.

Author: Sounds robotic. Latter part almost works.

Reviewer: Should have been worded better. I agree.

> [@budde92](https://github.com/budde25) clicked enough keyboard to where you can now delete a file you just downloaded _and_ re-download it _without_ the app crashing. In what is a conundrum, we are not sure why you'd want to before now, but do.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[@budde92](https://github.com/budde25) clicked enough keys to where you can now delete a file you just downloaded _and_ re-download it _without_ the app crashing. In what is a conundrum, we are not sure why you'd want to before now, but do.
```

Author: Intentional, it is a sort of non-sequitur joke

> The license pop-up now lacks the ability to just disappear when you change orientation. This was fixed by [@nmurali94](https://github.com/nmurali94).

Author: ```suggestion
The license pop-up now lacks the distinct ability to just disappear when you change orientation. This was fixed by [@nmurali94](https://github.com/nmurali94).
```

The license pop-up now lacks the ability to just disappear when you change orientation. This was fixed by [@nmurali94](https://github.com/nmurali94).
[@budde92](https://github.com/budde25) clicked enough keyboard to where you can now delete a file you just downloaded _and_ re-download it _without_ the app crashing. In what is a conundrum, we are not sure why you'd want to before now, but do.

> [@mhmdanas](https://github.com/mhmdanas) changed a code call because its origin was redundant. Yay for less redundancy. When auto-queue is enabled, Newpipe wants to add a stream to the queue the moment you open a video. But if there are no video suggestions on that page, it causes a crash. This has been fixed by [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688).

Author: OK, meant to know what that means? Pretty grim, what is exciting and why? Give it something.

Reviewer: > Yay for less redundancy. 

We've used 'yay' before as well. The change itself is boring, and the reader knows it, so we inject some humour this way.

Author: Yay

[@mhmdanas](https://github.com/mhmdanas) changed a code call because its origin was redundant. Less redundancy good. When auto-queueing takes place, Newpipe wants to add a stream to the queue the moment you open a video. If no video suggestions were to be found on that page, that caused a crash. And then [@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688) put an end to such shenanigans.

## Development

> Development. Where all the magic which keeps this app running happens. It saw some improvements in this release: (Warning: Nerd talk ahead)

Author: Eeeeh.

Reviewer: Ooooh?

> - The extractor will ignore OTF streams now, since they don't work with progressive HTTP, and the extractor can't work with DASH just yet. This has been a major point of inconvenience for a lot of users (and us, too!) so we're eager to mitigate the problem until the proper fix sometime later. ([@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688))

Author: Works, if the setup works.

> - The extractor will ignore OTF streams now, since they don't work with progressive HTTP, and the extractor can't work with DASH just yet. This has been a major point of inconvenience for a lot of users (and us, too!) so we're eager to mitigate the problem until the proper fix sometime later. ([@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688))

Author: ```suggestion
- The extractor will ignore OTF streams now, since they don't work with progressive HTTP, and the extractor can't work with DASH just yet. This has been a major inconvenience for a lot of users and developers alike, so we're eager to mitigate the problem until the proper fix can be landed sometime later. ([@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688))
```

Development. The nerd magic sourced from the purest of autism. Embrace yourself:

- The extractor will ignore OTF streams now, since they don't work with progressive HTTP, and the extractor can't work with DASH just yet. This has been a major point of inconvenience for a lot of users (and us, too!) so we're eager to mitigate the problem until the proper fix sometime later. ([@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688))

> - A Checkstyle rule was added so it would show an error when a local variable which could be `final` wasn't declared as such. ([@XiangRongLin](https://github.com/XiangRongLin))

Author: And what is that?

Reviewer: You want us to put the actual line of code in the blog post?

Author: I mean what is "Checkstyle". Is that obvious?

> - A library we use, PrettyTime, has been updated to a newer version so that a workaround can be removed from NewPipe's code. The performance improvement is a bonus! ([@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A library we use, PrettyTime, has been updated to a newer version so that a workaround can be removed from NewPipe's code. The performance improvement is a nice bonus! ([@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol))
```

Author: Extra. Doesn't match the other "bonus".

- A [Checkstyle](https://checkstyle.sourceforge.io/) rule was added to show an error when a local variable which could be `final` wasn't declared as such. ([@XiangRongLin](https://github.com/XiangRongLin))

> - A library we use, PrettyTime, has been updated to a newer version so that a workaround can be removed from NewPipe's code. We get a performance improvement as a bonus! ([@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol))

Author: "we" for no reason. "as" redundant, after the point of redundancy.

Reviewer: > "we" for no reason.

We = the team.

>  "as" redundant, after the point of redundancy.

"We get a performance improvement a bonus!" ???

Author: So the team gets a performance bonus, or you are using "we" indiscriminately, which one is it?
Do neither.

> - A library we use, PrettyTime, has been updated to a newer version so that a workaround can be removed from NewPipe's code. The performance improvement is a bonus! ([@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol))

Author: ```suggestion
- A workaround was not needed henceforth, following the latest version of the PrettyTime library. The performance improvement is a bonus! ([@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol))
```

- A library we use, PrettyTime, has been updated to a newer version so that a workaround can be removed from NewPipe's code. The performance improvement is a bonus! ([@B0pol](https://github.com/B0pol))

> - Numbers and uppercase letters are now allowed in the application ID. ([@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox))

Author: Not how it is in the strings.

Reviewer: "The strings". O.o

- Numbers and uppercase letters are now allowed in the app ID. ([@Stypox](https://github.com/Stypox))

> - Contributors need to discuss their contributions now prior to opening a PR. ([@gkeegan](https://github.com/gkeegan))

Author: That doesn't sound good, Verb objective subjective shuffled.

Reviewer: > Verb objective subjective shuffled.

[Subject] needs to discuss [subject]'s [object]. What is the problem?

Author: The problem is it isn't how English works. It is "contributor*" twice.

> - Contributors need to discuss their contributions prior to opening a PR now. ([@gkeegan](https://github.com/gkeegan))

Author: ```suggestion
- Contributors should discuss big contributions prior to opening PRs now. ([@gkeegan](https://github.com/gkeegan))
```

> ## Where does one get outfitted with the latest in NewPipe?

Reviewer 2: This may sound like getting merch if read out of context :)

Author: That is the point. Ties in to "MediaStyle" in style. A bit of flare to saying "Download this"

Reviewer 2: I do like this change. I was just pointing this out.

> - The code now prevents the YouTube website from accessing the available Java packages from NewPipe's parser. This removes a possible attack surface. ([@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688))

Author: ```suggestion
- The code now prevents the YouTube website from accessing the available Java packages from NewPipe's parser. This removes attack surface. ([@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688))
```

- Contributors need to discuss their contributions prior to opening a PR now. ([@gkeegan](https://github.com/gkeegan))
	
- Some deprecations as well as a lot of code cleanup happened. ([@TacoTheDank](https://github.com/TacoTheDank))

- The code now prevents the YouTube website from accessing the available Java packages from NewPipe's parser. This removes a possible attack surface. ([@wb9688](https://github.com/wb9688))

> ## Where to get this brand-new version

Author: Of what?

Reviewer: The new iPhone. xD

> NewPipe notifies you about new versions. Download by pressing the notification. An alternative is the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases). If you use the [F-Droid app](https://f-droid.org/), you will be notified of all app news, including [NewPipe](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.schabi.newpipe/). Please keep in mind it can take F-Droid a while to update their repository. If you have problems installing you may need to uninstall NewPipe, and then reinstall it. (Make sure to back up you data.)

Author: ```suggestion
NewPipe notifies you of new versions in a notification you can click to download it. An alternative is the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases). If you use the [F-Droid app](https://f-droid.org/), you will be notified of all app news, including [NewPipe](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.schabi.newpipe/). Please keep in mind it can take F-Droid a while to update their repository. If you have problems installing you may need to uninstall NewPipe, and then reinstall it. (Make sure to back up you data.)
```

> NewPipe notifies you of new versions in a notification you can click to download it. An alternative is the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases). If you use the [F-Droid app](https://f-droid.org/), you will be notified of all app news, including [NewPipe](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.schabi.newpipe/). Please keep in mind it can take F-Droid a while to update their repository. If you have problems installing you may need to uninstall NewPipe, and then reinstall it. (Make sure to back up you data.)

Author: ```suggestion
NewPipe notifies you of new versions in a notification you can click to download it. An alternative is the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases). If you use the [F-Droid app](https://f-droid.org/), you will be notified of all app news, including [NewPipe](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.schabi.newpipe/). Please keep in mind it can take F-Droid a while to update their repository. If you have problems installing you may need to uninstall NewPipe, before reinstalling it. (Make sure to back up your kids, and you data.)
```

> - Wait for F-Droid to ship the new NewPipe

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Wait for F-Droid to ship the new NewPipe version
```

Author: It is a fun sequence of words. :)

Reviewer 2: I see what you mean now :)

> If you already had NewPipe installed through F-Droid's repository, to get this version of NewPipe you can do one of the following:

Author: ```suggestion
If you already had NewPipe installed from the main F-Droid repository, to get this version of NewPipe you can do one of the following:
```

NewPipe notifies you of new versions in a notification you can click to download it. An alternative is the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/releases). If you use the [F-Droid app](https://f-droid.org/), you will be notified of all app news, including [NewPipe](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.schabi.newpipe/). Please keep in mind it can take F-Droid a while to update their repository. If you have problems installing you may need to uninstall NewPipe, and then reinstall it. (Make sure to back up you data.)

If you already had NewPipe installed through F-Droid's repository, to get this version of NewPipe you can do one of the following:

> - Wait for them to update or

Author: Come on.

Reviewer: Agreed.

> - Switch to the NewPipe repository in F-Droid by following the [directions in the announcement]({% post_url 2020-05-30-f-droid-repo %}) (no need to uninstall any NewPipe from GitHub releases first)

Author: ```suggestion
- Switch to the NewPipe repository in F-Droid by following the [directions in the announcement]({% post_url 2020-05-30-f-droid-repo %}) (no need to remove any NewPipe installed from GitHub releases first).
```

> - Switch to the NewPipe repository by following the [directions in the announcement]({% post_url 2020-05-30-f-droid-repo %}) (if you had previously installed NewPipe from GitHub releases you will not have to uninstall NewPipe to switch)

Author: Meant to know what a repo is without context. Second clause too long.

Reviewer: If someone knows what F-Droid is, it is safe to assume they know what a repo is.

Author: No, not at all. Also, why not go the other way and explain in plain English how things work instead?

> - Switch to the NewPipe repository in F-Droid by following the [directions in the announcement]({% post_url 2020-05-30-f-droid-repo %}) (no need to remove any NewPipe installed from GitHub releases first).

Author: ```suggestion
- Switch to the special NewPipe repository in F-Droid by following the [directions in the announcement]({% post_url 2020-05-30-f-droid-repo %}) (no need to remove any NewPipe installed from GitHub releases first).
```

> Now that you are on NewPipe 0.20.0, please let us know what your experience is, especially bugs in need of fixing.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you are hopelessly hooked on NewPipe 0.20.0, please let us know what your experience is, especially encountering bugs in need of fixing.
```

> As usual, you can reach out via IRC ([#newpipe on freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=newpipe)), [open issues on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues/new) or, ideally, use our built-in crash reporter to send in machine-readable issue reports.

Author: ```suggestion
Reach out via IRC, where you can talk to developers and the community on ([#newpipe on freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=newpipe)), [open issues on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues/new) or, ideally, use our built-in crash reporter to send in machine-readable issue reports.
```

> You can even [send in fixes](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#bug-fixing) yourself.

Author: ```suggestion
You can even be an unmitigated badass and [send in fixes](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#bug-fixing), you hero you.
```

> Feel free to ask other questions in the comments here, and someone will reply.

Author: ```suggestion
Feel free to ask other questions in the comments here. You will get a reply. Your problems will all go away.
```

- Wait for F-Droid to ship the new NewPipe
- Switch to the NewPipe repository in F-Droid by following the [directions in the announcement]({% post_url 2020-05-30-f-droid-repo %}) (no need to remove any NewPipe installed from GitHub releases first).

Now that you are on NewPipe 0.20.0, please let us know what your experience is, especially bugs in need of fixing.
As usual, you can reach out via IRC ([#newpipe on freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=newpipe)), [open issues on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues/new) or, ideally, use our built-in crash reporter to send in machine-readable issue reports.
You can even [send in fixes](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#bug-fixing) yourself.
Feel free to ask other questions in the comments here, and someone will reply.

> Now that you've updated, please let us know what your experience of the latest release is, especially bugs in need of fixing. As usual, you can reach out to us via IRC ([#newpipe on freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=newpipe)), [open issues on GitHub](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues/new) or, ideally, use our built-in crash reporter to send us machine-readable issue reports. You can even [send in fixes](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/blob/dev/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#bug-fixing) yourself. If you have any other questions feel free to send them in the comments here and someone will reply to you.

Author: No, actually reading. Havent updated, because it is "upgrading". Who on IRC? Can I talk to the developers and community directly. That is kind of cool, why not mention that? Someone who?

Reviewer: > No, actually reading the text at this point.

We're not being literal. XD

> Haven't updated, because it is "upgrading". 

Sure.

> Who on IRC?

"us", so the team behind the app, otherwise we would have mentioned the 3rd party or company that handles customer care for us.

> Someone who?

No one specific. Anyone who is online at that time.

Author: Vague, and more vague.
